# Lab 5 Heap Manager

There are 3 parts to this lab, two of which are optional. The first part is mm.c, which is an implementation of C's malloc and free functions, which allocate a given amount of bytes in the processes heap and deallocate the block pointed to by the given pointer respectively. The first optional part is mm-realloc.c, a reimplementation of C's realloc function, which copies the data in the given block to a new block of the given size (the new block can be in the same place as the old if there is enough space). Finally, there is mm-gc.c, a mark and sweep garbage collector similar to that in java.

- mm.c:
  - mm_malloc: We were provided most of the lower level functions for this, so we only had to implement it on a high level. First I properly sanitize the size input, adding 8 bytes for the header, aligning it to an 8 byte (1 word) address, and ensuring it was of minimum size. Then, I searched the free list for a large enough block. If one wasn't found I requested more heap space and searched again and then removed the found block from the free list. Next I checked if the block was large enough to be split, if so I create a new free block filling the unused space with the proper tag bits and a footer, adding to the free list afterward. If the block is just the right size we can simply set the prec_used tag of the next block to a 1 and move on to initializing the newly used block by setting the size to the required size and the used and prec_used tags to 1. Finally, we just return the pointer to our newly allocated block plus 8 so the pointer is to the payload instead of the header
  - mm_free: We were provided the same low level functions as mm_malloc, so again we only had to implement the high level logic. First we had to sanitize the input this time, except we only subtracted sizeof(size_t) bytes from the given ptr so it pointed to the header and not the payload. I also defined following_block by setting it as the given ptr + payload_size and set its prec_used tag to 0 since we are freeing the current block. Then we change the used tag bit on the given block and copy the header to the end of the block to create the footer. Once the new free block is properly initialized we just call insert_free_block and coalesce_free_block to put it into the free list and combine free blocks as needed.
- mm-realloc: TBD
- mm-gc: TBD
